=head1 NAME

Couchbase SDK Driver Framework

=head1 OVERVIEW

The aim of cbsdkd is to provide a language-neutral interface and framework
for testing and performing various memcached operations (and in the future,
couchdb) using pluggable "language-modules".

The test controller (testrunner) written in python will implement test logic
and will channel the necessary information to a given implementation of an
'sdkd'.

Currently, the basic operations of memcached have been implemented in both a
python-facing API, and a perl-based sdkd plugin (it was written in Perl since
this is the dynamic language couchbase SDK I am most familiar with, and also to
demonstrate cross language and cross paradigm interoperability and
functionality).

=head1 CONCEPTS

The implementation and architecture are both a work in progress, but the basic
concepts should remain the same with little change.

=head2 HANDLES

A I<handle> is an object representing a single connection to a single couchbase
bucket. Handles are present in all SDKs I have seen, and is therefore the main
unit of reference.

Handles are instantiated with the common bucket, hostname, and authentication
parameters, with other options depending on plugin support.

Handles may be concurrent, although the concurrency itself is implementation
dependent (i.e. they can be forked, threaded, etc). The Perl C<sdkd> example
implements an accept-fork model and uses sockets.

=head2 DATASETS

Datasets represent an abstraction of a set of key-value pairs. Datasets are
opaque units with a deterministic output based on the inputs used to construct
it.

They may be created I<inline> (i.e. a simple list of key-value pairs), they may
reference an external file (not really implemented) or shared memory segment
(not yet implemented either..).

A special feature that has been part of the design is the ability to create
datasets based on B<seeds>. Where instead of transferring the entire dataset
to the C<sdkd> implementation, a small set of parameters are passed, which should
be decoded by the implementation and expanded on-demand.


=head3 OPERATIONS

Operations consist atomic operations performed on datasets. These are your
good old memcached ops. However, instead of operations taking actual keys
and returning actual values, they accept dataset identifiers as input, and
produce statistical information as output

=head1 USING

There currently isn't much excitement here. The python commandline 'client',
C<cbsdkd_client> should be self explanatory (run it with C<--help> for options.

You will need Perl version 5.8.8 or greater (this shouldn't be a problem on any
semi-modern operating system).

The Perl C<sdkbin/sdkd_perl> requires several packages from CPAN.
The simplest way to do this is using C<cpanm>

    curl -L http://cpanmin.us | perl - --sudo App::cpanminus

    # Then, install the following packages:
    sudo cpanm Moo Couchbase::Client JSON::XS Data::Dumper::Concise Log::Fu
    sudo cpanm Carp::Always

To run the perl C<sdkd> with C<cbsdk_client>

    ./cbsdk_client -C conf/perl.cfg < ... options ... >


Note that C<Couchbase::Client> uses an embedded version of libcouchbase
which may not be the most recent (I think it may use the system-provided
library, if installed.. but I am not sure.. been a while :)



The C++/libcouchbase-based C<cplusplus/sdkd_lcb> requires libcouchbase
headers and JsonCPP. On debian systems you may install it via apt:

    sudo apt-get install libjsoncpp0 libjsoncpp-dev

Then

    make -C cplusplus CXX=g++

To run the C++/libcouchbase C<sdkd>

    ./cbsdk_client -C conf/lcb.cfg < ... options ... >
